Hello, dear listener, and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast that would willingly give up life on a futuristic space base full of attractive young models in order to spend all eternity skulky in a cave watching Prentice Hancock brushing dust out of his moustache.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm James.
And I'm those spanking new sliding Lanai windows out onto the patio for Victor's very last shroom party.
Well, you very nearly landed on my key word this evening, which I'm going to use in a minute, but not before I say that we are watching...
Very close.
Series Squad, episode 17, the last sunset, which is written by Christopher Penfold.
Except it isn't.
Oh, okay, okay.
We'll get to as good.
Tidied up. and directed. and directed by Charles Crichton.
What do we think about it?
to his mates, which means, which means beautiful, Xenia Merton, patron saint of our podcast has pithy things to say.
Mostly spitting them out of her mouth and mostly full of fuller's earth.
This will find brutal, isn't it?
She had a rotten time.
She always does.
Reliably does.
Look at Cassandra episode.
Quick smack her in the head.
Maybe we should change the name of the show, torturing Xena.
I thought this was fantastic, I have to say.
I'm just going to put it in 1976.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Just magnificent.
Really, really quite good.
And we'll talk about why, obviously, because we've got 50 minutes to get through.
So let's start by getting the viewers at home to press their buttons.
I am going to get everyone, including Richard Depress play, when I say the keyword, and I'm going to tell you what the keyword is now.
The keyword is silo cybon.
And the next that I say that word.
I want you to press play.
On the silo or the cyber?
Yes, one of those.
Or on the magic or the mushroom.
Okay, here goes.
Silocybon.
And we're off.
Oh, it's another gorgeous marble lava lamp.
It's wonderful.
I love these planets It doesn't look like a prolapse.
Less like a prolamps because it's not pink.
Although it does look like you're in a...
Funny.
Ariel is... principal moon of Uranus, please.
Yeah.
And we're already at that level, dude.
Thank you for joining.
And the word well endowed has just appeared on the screen.
Well endangering.
Back on Midori Alert.
Also, what happened to the lovely other pilot because he wasn't sitting in the cockpit just then?
Are we on Midori alert?
I don't know.
Just for the atmosphere, I think.
Yes.
So we are monitoring this planet and I think we think we're about to go into orbit around it.
We're all a bit excited.
Yes.
And so we're looking to descend to the planet, aren't we?
Kano's just put in his chit for expenses for the last time.
So definitely they expect things to be happening.
This is so great.
Who's, do we know who the pilot is, the copilot?
I know who all the pilots are, but we've got a very exciting moment coming up with a fine knot.
Yes.
But not right now.
Brendan do you know who this young gentleman is?
I don't know who this young gentleman is.
I think I know who the young gentleman that you're referring to is.
Yes, we do.
I will see if I know who this young guy is.
Because he appears.
He appears quite a bit.
He's a bit like Tanya, who's also in this episode.
He's a he's a regular additional personage.
Tanya gets quite a lot to do this week.
He gets lines.
Yeah, yeah, it's wonderful.
She's doing the accent for everything.
Well, she is doing it now.
But because they send all the big children out to play.
This is a bit exciting.
We should be talking about the menacing cotton reel.
See, someone remember those thoughts?
It was a salt shaker.
Yeah, it is. those things are always blocked.
The guy does such a dramatic protecting his face against the oncoming salt shaker.
He's awesome.
Now he looks slightly embarrassed.
This is Pete Johnson, played by Robert Arnold.
Right.
And he appears in 4 episodes.
Alpha Child, the last Sunset, War Games and Dragon's Domain, so I think.
Oh, so we've seen him.
This is our last go with him.
Yep, yep.
And yes, he's named on screen in war games as Pete, and in scripts, he's named as Johnson.
Okay, we know his name.
That's why these longer episodes.
Isn't that a beautiful shot?
These long episodes are just so lovely because they give...
Oh, exciting moment for the fanboy model boys at home.
Yeah, and freeze up your lazy season.
That is not the new 44 inch model.
That is the repainted original model repainted for this episode because Jerry said, and it was Jerry's concept, Jerry's script, it was called a bottle episode. everyone know what they are?
Cheaper.
Exactly.
They didn't have a Doctor Who as well.
Oh, also keep it equalise on the this episode because there's some moments you see that are not actually in the episode.
Mostly to do with babs.
Yes, that shot of her being thrown.
No, that's in it.
It is, but it's a different shot.
Oh, okay.
I have to say there's some top quality stunt double work, including a shot where 3 completely different people seem to be...
That is the joy and also nature of Blu-ray that we get to see bits we never really were meant to see.
I mean, my TV is the smallest I can get these days and it's still at least twice the size of the one we watch this on.
I, look, I have to say that the thing that really sells this episode for me is the incredibly striking primary visual concept, which is moon-based alpha only with a blue sky and like a different colour palette.
It's just blue sky.
It's wonderful.
Do you like the story?
Yeah.
So Jerry Road, it'll cost nothing.
We'll just take the models outside.
It's been more on Joan Collins, and that was actually the point.
Mission of the Jarians was going to cost a huge fortune.
Joan, don't come cheap.
Yeah, and that was one of the big budget stories.
So he said, it'll be fine.
But every model short hat to be reshot, every, because it's against a blue sky, you could see all the strings.
It took forever.
Nothing could be reused.
And Xenia Merton tells a lovely story about it, um, that she got caught in an airlock with Jerry, um, and she just said it as a Fanderson convention.
So most of you probably haven't heard her say it.
So I'll coop out.
Oh, there it is. the new model.
So there's a new 44 inch.
Oh.
And Paul's got his Xbox out.
Oh, no, but don't you remember that like model remote controlled cars and stuff?
That's all magic.
Yeah, no of course it is.
They do seem to have bolted up since it last appeared.
Oh, okay.
It doesn't seem quite as off the shelf as when I like saw it.
That's the new model, isn't it, beautiful?
And this is the only time you see Brian's new relaxatron footpad.
Oh, they're beautiful.
It was worth it, wasn't it?
I'm wearing them now.
Yeah, it's actually the model is as big as Brendan's head.
So if anyone's interested, we'll send you measurements of Brendan's head.
We'll send you, Brendan.
Yeah, we could, if you, you know, what, 50 bucks.
It depends how much they send.
Yes. stamped self-interest.
I've had to measure myself for hats.
Of course.
It's as small as you think, children.
That's a beautiful.
Isn't that a lovely shot?
Yeah, yeah.
I think just always gorgeous.
I was, yeah, I was just thinking, like, I've always, I had always wondered, you know, why, why have we got these poles with 4 monitors?
It's so we can have shots like that, but it also still makes sense in universe.
It's rather lovely.
What's the word you often use?
Diagetic.
And here Victor has nicked poor Helena's armature from medical and stuck it on a war machine.
That is actually...
Or one of the cleaners from Paradise.
Hey, even better.
It is too.
I love the little blue things.
I think they great.
They feel like if ABBA had actually done videos.
It would have been in one of those, or it's something we got from IKEA that we didn't know what it was for.
But it turns into a lovely esky type.
Hills hoist party prop, doesn't it, later on in the episode.
Well, with all the things come out of it.
Suddenly produces a hill's hoist.
Yeah, wonderful. and party stuff.
Stuff.
I mean, look at you thinking, sure, bring it into the office.
Why not?
And Victor says, wait 400.
He doesn't specify kilograms or pounds, but he does measure it in centimetres.
So we can see, this is so shocking, isn't it?
And it was gripping.
Yeah, yeah, just amazing.
And of course, you know, it's like whatever.
Also, fricking architects.
Where's the door seals on the fricking lab?
It's a tech lab.
So what do you think?
seal off the technical section, they're sending a crew of people with corking guns to...
It's 526 p.m. by the way, just always.
That reminds me, I need to change the battery and the clock in the kitchen.
Thank you.
I thought that was Judy Geason.
Anyway, see about this episode.
She's fabulous.
The best thing about this episode is all the regulars we've enjoyed are in almost every shot.
So you get to those people doing their backy action later on.
Yeah, that's right.
It's really lovely.
And of course, yes.
And the major focus, that elf throwing himself, just tossing himself.
That was Alf again, Alf joint, friend of the podcast.
Yes, yeah.
I mean this is beautifully done.
It's so propulsive Martin tearing up his script for this week.
Not even enough.
But don't you think?
You know he actually did that all the time.
Well, that's why you get the shouty moment later on.
But like the, the, the air is rushing towards us in the same way, in the same direction, in every shot.
And so it really feels like the air is just sort of filling the entire space.
I just think it's so well done.
But just visually this is so exciting.
It was very polished.
It's Charlie Crichton.
The reason we're noticing is he's the only one, as Zenya pointed out, who used more than one static camera. shocking for us to realise they were just using a single camera for these, for these, all of these scenes, but I guess the cameras were really big, but no, Charlie always insisted on a minimum of two.
But we SteadyCam was only is still a little bit away.
Okay.
Android.
Hang on, not Android invasion.
Um, Santarian experiment.
Round about the same time.
Yeah, yeah.
They did have access to steady cam.
But they seem, Charlie Crichton seems to have just used static floor cameras.
Right.
So, yeah, I think in the world.
One of the models fell over, a couple of them.
I think in the week this is shown. like Brendan's action fix. in his lovely display.
And here we have the opening titles to Maritime Moore, season one, don't we?
I mean, he's stunning.
All these beautiful young people as well.
People doomed into gorgeous, but doomed.
Look at them.
Everyone is so pretty, man.
Fresh out of the...
The drag queen.
Which wants the drag queen?
No, Bob the Drag Queen.
Yeah, he's in that too.
Bob.
Well, that opening shot of Hitchhiker is going to the galaxy with the sunrise, which has achieved the same way with a model landscape and a big light, you know, kind of rising.
Literally an angle poise lamp.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
But it's stunning. and it's so look how incredible that looks.
And this cost way over budget.
And yet I think it looks gorgeous.
Everyone can criticise it.
Johnny Byrne, when asked many years later and at the time, oh, it was a good story, tight story, but totally failed on the technical.
They all said that.
I can't see it.
The visuals are stunning.
I think it unbelievable.
We're watching this on an inexpensive, but big telly on Blu-ray, and I'm waiting to hear the gentleman.
I'm not complaining No, no, it looks magnificent.
I was just wondering whether he took it out to the ATV car park.
They do?
No, they do.
We'll yell when that happens.
Yeah, it's smaller than you think.
Put sand everywhere and then set up a tent.
No, full as a...
You know, that's pretty expensive stuff.
I think is it for 10ia?
What it for?
I can't remember it's for your feet.
In a Lumley, it was thrown into a bucket of it for the pink panther.
Dogs to avail their priinquity on.
Oh, maybe you're right.
Colin Baker to rub in his face.
Yeah.
It is a clay product.
It is British and it cost a fortune.
I don't know why he insisted.
Oh, I know why because it's clean.
So you buy it and it's processed and it's a cosmetic.
Yeah.
It's like a facial scrub.
I mean, this just looks incredible and the way everyone's acting.
Like suddenly everyone is acting just vastly different.
No, then relax for a chance.
No, look at them all.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Look how chill everyone is.
Sandra's delightful.
Don't stand in the front.
You'll be chosen.
It never ends up well.
Can I say something about the casting at this point?
So, Paul and Sandra are about to be sent on a mission.
It was not Paul in the original script.
It was the Italian guest star of the week.
Oh, okay.
Who were according to Zenya Merton, 4 days before filming when he was due to a ride from Italy, never arrived.
So they rewrote it for Paul, which is why Tanya gets lines.
Oh, they're Paul's line.
Well, in the scenes coming up, Kano is in Paul's seat.
And Tanya is.
And because we've been told previously that Kano is in command when Paul and Martin aren't there.
It makes perfect sense.
And it's interesting that, you know, they would have had to rewrite it in less than a week.
They've actually paid attention to, okay, well, who would fill these roles?
And this kind of addresses a criticism I've had of the show in that we're constantly bringing in guest guest stars without developing our characters.
We're not even doing season 2 yet.
Yeah.
God.
And Prentice actually, Prentice actually gets like a really interesting...
This was his favourite.
Yeah, he talks about it.
He's such a mellow, sweet fella.
And he's having a Barbarilla moment taking off his suit, one glove at a time.
Also, don't do that.
So this went out 1st of January, 1976 in the UK.
I think we got it slightly before, James, didn't we?
don't know.
I didn't check.
We got most of the season one.
Yeah, I think we did.
But we didn't watch it during our non-ratings period, which is sort of now.
Yeah, yeah. through to January.
January.
They went forever.
They ever felt like 3 months.
But I don't think I've ever seen. never seen Prentice smile like that on television.
Like ever.
And that's so...
And that's...
Your bedroom, however.
Here we are playing it.
What is it, badminton?
Quick cut to the shuttlecox.
This is this is the 70s.
This is what the 70s was like for those of you who weren't born yet?
It just looks like every English beach.
You never want to go.
It's so great.
It's chroma.
But it's and and of course.
What the hell?
Dear listener, if you're in the bath. just open the windows.
Unfortunately, there was a cut line where they explained that...
Oh, no, there's an openable window.
Oh, yeah.
They've got the 2 tech boys and you later see them milling about mincing about looking bored.
So and I don't why did you cut it?
But anyway, because Jerry is insistent because apparently it was feeling slow, but yeah, they put them in and then later on, sadly, spoiler alert.
They take them out.
I mean, I would have been happy to have more of this.
I think the problem with this episode is that it turns into a sort of fairly standard space 1999 episode. really, really quickly.
For reasons I can't quite work out, we'll get there.
But seeing this, this is so different from anything we've ever seen before. and it's... astonishingly looking.
They're happy to be here.
I will say, you know, this has been...
Drives and juices are starting to float.
This has been a good, like, 6 months for Prentice Hancock, because of course, space 1999 premieres, I think, in the same week as Tear up the Zygons episode 2 over on Doctor Who.
Yes.
And just 6 weeks before this, people got to see a rather different performance of Prentice Hancock in Doctor Who and the Planet of Evil, which finished on 18th of October 1975.
So he kind of gets a 2nd go at it here.
Look how beautiful this is with the sky.
All of these things.
We've been watching it for like 16 episodes now and every time it's been against a black background.
It just looks, oh, that moustache.
I'm kissing that massage. perfect.
Because it's so easy to forget.
She, of course.
I mean, from what we know of Prentice, he's pretty much just playing himself with a permanent wave.
But we know that Zenya was nothing like this, and yet she's so gentle and so demure and okay, and Victor's just planning a party.
Outside.
I reckon we fill the crater and have a big bubble bath.
What do you say?
Are you kidding, Victor?
He's building an outdoor Jacuzzi.
It's huge.
Thank you.
Enormous Jacuzzi.
Tycho crater.
What happens if it, oh, hello.
It's happening again.
So probe's getting probie.
Yeah, much like Victor.
Why don't we have coffee topers that look like that?
I want to go and stick little blue and white bits of contact over all my furniture so I have panels that don't do anything.
It just looks incredible.
Just their joy.
We're about to see the car park, by the way, James.
We are about to see car park, James.
And there's just a few like, why haven't I got to make that?
Hey, oh, isn't she glorious?
They must be mostly British because they're really enjoying the rain.
Well, I think they are.
But it's warm for the 1st time too.
Oh, can we also, is there enough to get...
There's the car park.
It actually looks pretty good.
Is there enough of, how do you get a van Allen built and a dense enough atmosphere in a day to repel ionising radio?
So they do actually have a line about they do have a line about maybe maybe it's not that, but it's a, they mentioned UV radiation.
Well, yes.
Yeah.
Helena implies that because it's a smaller surface area, having a lower atmosphere, um, means it's less of a problem.
Yeah, yeah, it's a different thing.
So they do they do kind of address it.
But even that, those 2 men hugging, you know, Victor and John hugging like that.
Like just the enthusiasm.
And here's where it starts to go wrong because I think all of us watching this, no, this is going to go to shit.
Of course, it'll be terrible.
And then this is the 1st point where if it rains too much, we're going to be under a lake and that's going to be bad for everyone.
I don't know, Seabase 2020, I mean, they worked out.
They had a dolphin.
Marine boy.
You know, we've done, there's the new eagle.
Beautiful.
I don't see this working out.
No.
Okay, here's your oscilloscope for no reason.
Okay, so you want to watch something oscillate, I think, is the reason.
Here's the acid.
I sure hope nothing bad happens.
Fucking hell.
Why are they bringing a bunch of acid with them?
They knew that there were mushrooms or maybe they didn't.
No, they don't, yeah.
And I've got a theory about that.
Okay.
Well, it's the 70s.
Do you know what I mean?
We start lying in the sun playing badminton and any 2nd now we're just going to eat a whole bunch of magic mushrooms, I think.
This is a tellingly sweet little piece on the polemics of the 70s and that there was supposedly all of this libertarianism and openness, but actually the old conservatism was very much there.
And we see that with this show.
There's a timorousness in how the performers celebrate and exuberance is meted and okay.
Okay, they're all scientists.
Except I'm not sure about Victor.
I think he's honestly just a party boy, but that, again, that shot.
I don't know why they weren't happy with it.
I think it looks extraordinary No, I think it's hard to look strange.
Let's be generous.
I think, you know, like something goes wrong with this generation, doesn't it?
Do you know what I mean?
They all end up...
Yeah, they do.
Trump stuff.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, and they're boomers and they all went weird.
Yeah, they vote.
But here too.
Now we start to get the fact that actually having an atmosphere means that we can no longer communicate the way that we could and then the discovery that all of the Fuller's Earth was gumming up the works and ruining all of the eagles and stuff.
Question, though.
They're responders and transceivers.
And all the rest of it was able to penetrate, penetrate Earth's atmosphere and all the other alien atmospheres.
Yeah.
So how come they're having difficulty?
Also, the eagle was designed, as Jerry said, for the toll, straight from a landing pad on earth up to the moon.
I've got questions.
But I do think that that having the things that they've relied on, do you know what I mean, fall foul of the thing that they that they've longed for more than anything else, and that the downside of this, you know, beautiful paradise that's been created is they can't do any of the things that they're used to doing.
I mean, that's a fucking plane.
I mean look at it.
There's no wings.
It's flying a bloody esky.
Yeah, that's right.
We also find out there's 28 eagles.
Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, this is Eagle 28, the newest one.
But even that shot there before where we've got those windows looking out onto a landscape, like we never...
I mean, that's the brilliance of that main mission said and the tragedy of series 2 where they're, you know, running moon-based alpha from a fucking cupboard. from a Costco loading. just awful.
With the same budget.
But like every, every aspect of the show looks completely different.
This is incredible.
Thank you, Brian Johnson.
Again, oh, the set is also full of Zer.
So it's the same stuff they spray on everyone.
I'm sure I used it on my feet when I was a child. can't remember.
Oh, it was very expensive.
You've only got tiny little jars of it.
No, no, no.
The goodies used it on our face, you know, a couple of episodes.
A partner.
Whenever I see an eagle crash, I just think of the similar model work in series one to 6 of Red Dwarf and Crichton's line about the survivability of Starbucks, this thing's crushed more. more times than a ZX 8031.
Sorry, I totally fucked that.
This thing has crashed more times than a Spectrum ZX 81.
Look, I'm a retro gamer.
I can't get that wrong.
No, no, no, it'd be embarrassing.
Spectrum 1830.
Hi, Bob.
Bob.
He's just saying, I'm so glad I'm sitting in here.
But there she is, isn't she pretty?
What could possibly go wrong?
Why aren't they sending a rescue eagle?
They've got all those pretty red pods so they don't use them.
There is, Richard.
And there is special CIA agent.
Bill Filer.
Paul...
Clever dick.
Yes, in the other in the other day.
Same haircut.
Same everything.
Oh, has he got the same hair?
It's so important.
Well, it's receded a bit.
Old mate, you're starting to see all the people who make...
This is how you know it's out of order because half of them are dead.
It's really quite early isn't it?
This is episode 11.
Yeah, SP 11.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Again it's one of those bottle ones.
So that was poor grist. yes.
Yes.
To the mill.
And more dust.
More dust.
Thank you, Brandon.
I'm looking up full as earth.
I really want to know why.
Poor grist had lines, but they were cut out.
Yeah, unfortunately. well, he's terrible.
Well, it's all right.
Hell have a fake arm in Blake 7 in a few years or something.
I thought he had, oh, no, that's what he does.
That's Paul Mershant.
I'm a bit excited about Jack McKenzie coming up too.
He's in 4 3 other episodes.
Oh, and Sandra's hit ahead.
Oh, she's so useless.
Why is she like the 1st person to be the smallest girl, so she must be injured.
Nathan.
She hits her head at all.
She spends the rest of the episode almost dying because she just all the time.
Get some resilience.
It's the same laws.
It's the same laws of the universe that Alan has to shred his uniform at Buffy bits on his person.
Yeah, yeah.
So he tests the whole arm off, doesn't he?
That's right.
Juicy bits.
You know, and Helena gets to look concerned.
Go on.
Well, I just did think from a writing point of view.
The more interesting thing would be, the doctor is injured.
Because then who treats her?
And, you know, Star Trek, the Next Generation does that with Beverly Crusher in the classic episode, The Arsenal of Freedom.
Yes.
The arsehole of freedom.
That's right.
Talk about Patrick Stewart like that.
Well, he's also the elbow freedom, as they called it on the set, yes.
I've just looked up full as earth.
And you can't put it on your feed. doesn't do anything.
I don't know what the hell my parents are.
That's why it doesn't work on your feet, Nathan.
It's something about black feet.
Tiny, tiny.
Okay, can we talk about the hexagon pods that aren't hexagons?
How do you stack them?
I had never seen them do anything but fall over each other.
They're like all-sided dice, aren't they?
Why?
No.
And they get it right in Star Trek, the Next Generation, where they are.
I know they're octagonal actually.
Yeah, but they tessellate.
Yeah, they do.
Well, they don't quite tesselate. square and they can be stacked.
Even the TARDIS this year had a cute little crank winch that you could open the door with when the tower went down.
Elizabeth Sladdin proved it and she didn't have biceps like these boys.
Why do you have to shoot everything?
That's so great.
That's why.
That's awesome, that shot.
I'm just saying, Nathan, he's using it on his feet.
That's right so right. as an Australian, he's the 1st one out on the beach.
Yeah.
Oh, it must have been so relaxing.
I didn't have any lines to learn.
Zenia said this was one of the hardest scenes she ever did because everyone was coughing.
The cameramen were coffee.
She never stops fucking whinging, does she?
She.
She said, I had to hold my breath for 3 minutes while everyone was doing their taste.
And then I could do it again. and then I had to... looming over.
Almost died.
Oh, this is so great.
Why are they yelling, she can't hear you.
No, but it doesn't matter. so great.
She's lost a sleeve.
There you go.
I think he's going to be nude by the end of this.
What do you reckon?
Redding is outfit.
I was just noticing.
Yes.
More Wang.
Nick Tate's pants are perfectly fitted from every...
Oh, no. spotted it then.
And I'm not even a butt man.
I appreciate...
Yeah, yeah, nice.
And, of course, is hugely physical.
We're grateful for it on some.
We're grateful for it on some performance.
Not on all.
Hi, Marty.
Hi, Victor.
Although some people are into that.
Well, it was the 70s. everyone was.
Everyone was.
At what point?
And again, here is Martin Ladder being a miserable bastard.
As usual.
It's kind of like they're offering us immortality.
And so I'm going to get a big gun and hurt everyone back on board the station.
You get the sense that Victor's primary role on Alpha is just to keep the commander from losing his crap.
Yeah, yeah.
It doesn't work this episode because he does lose his crap, really.
Calm down, commander.
I've got some of those magic mushrooms.
Well, again, why do you put the ass anyway?
It was obviously playing an amazing party.
No, but there's a line there.
Why is the acid near the water?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I was making cocktail.
Why is it stored near the food?
Yeah.
Then the natural next question that nobody asks is, why the fuck did we have acid on board?
Yeah, no, what's it for?
We might want to dissolve.
They needed some acid.
They needed some acid to go with their magic mushroom.
No, until they found the magic mushrooms.
They didn't expect to find the macro mushrooms.
They had to bring their own acid supply.
But yeah, what's the acid for?
It's in the car battery.
Yeah.
It's in the pantry.
Yes.
Anyway.
So, Nick, take your clothes off, do a helicopter and attract the attention of the next eagle that flies overhead.
Well, here's the thing, right?
Nick Taint.
Nick taint.
I just think, if I had a moon base, and the moon colour is predominantly gray, and I had spaceships that flew over the moon and were prone to crashing, I would not make the spaceships predominantly gray, or the cargo predominantly, I'd had something colourful to users of flair.
Yeah, why don't they have flares?
They just wear, they do have a flare.
Oh, they're always wearing...
I'm sorry, Sancho.
I shouldn't flare later.
Sandra, we need the blue blanket to attract the attention of the eagles.
That fucking yellow.
Take the yellow thing out.
It's attached.
Oh, see, no, that's why Nick's ripped his sleeve off and he's left it out.
I've been going to the gym.
Where did you tell?
Good to rescue.
Look, to be totally fair, potassic acid is potassium acid and you do need it, but not quite in the quantity.
Yeah.
Why are there ropes?
Oh, well, they're ropes.
Well, I mean, they were expecting a giant Jacuzzi, aren't they?
Also, Martin, they're Victor's ropes, aren't Martin, don't put that knee up and do the coquettish butt action thing because we're not...
We're not here for that.
He's doing an early Riker.
And now we're discovering what John Conig thinks of the engineering staff, which is they've been sitting on their fucking arse for the last 16 episodes.
And now they have to actually do something.
I get to shout at the nonwhite guy.
Yeah.
This scene.
I'm pacing.
No, fair enough.
This scene was added because Martin complained he didn't have enough lines in this story.
Christ.
He's doing some top quality. don't have enough lines.
Let me shout.
There's no drama.
And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, commander.
What were the technical section doing when Ian McShane wandered into the reactor?
I'm sure they had something to do that.
Working out.
Don't you remember?
But they were in the...
Look at this.
Peter Balls turned up as the devil. solarium.
Potassium acid, if that's what she's talking to.
You know what it is?
It's cream of tartar.
It's what you, it's what you toss into your egg whites to make them hold peaks as your granny would have.
So they wanted to make a meringue, but they...
Oh my god, they were going to make Pavlova.
Oh my, he's very...
Kate was going to make it.
Pavlova. all his fault.
I am absolutely here for the 2 litre plastic bottles with labels one and 2 on them in Futura Bold.
Don't they look great?
The yellow thing is facing the other way.
It is not... not stuck.
They've moved it around.
And now they're all being men and they're saying, don't give us water to Sandra.
It's that exactly, it's that line that Kenneth Williams said in around the horn.
Well, we wanted to have children, but I've got too much albumen and her blood sugar's too high, but we make gorgeous meringue.
And that's what the acid was for.
Look, there's like there's blue ropes.
They're literally ropes. victors.
I just see chafing issues.
And Paul's giving them a look.
That's why it really crashed because Victor had been dismantling it for his latest sex past.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Also, pausing, yeah, because this is the zenior show. was also complaining that that wasn't sweat that they needed to reply.
The set was stinking hot and they, for some reason, kept me in the uniform and the suit and the silver blanket.
Even though you can only see the flaming blanket.
That woman never stops whinge.
So you're saying you're saying the sweat was digetic?
Thank you, Brandon.
Stop being such a baby, John.
Jesus Christ.
No one can crash illegal like Mark.
Yeah, he is pretty great.
That was a great shot.
Sticks the butt out at the end.
And he's got his flux capacitor out of it.
So, you know.
Actually, went to see back to the future.
So did I, I, the cinema, not the musical.
I saw the stage play and it's the only musical I've enjoyed for a very long time.
I've heard it's very good It's very nice.
So that looks great, doesn't it?
It looks like something that...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It does look a bit pertwheat era, but there's a lot going on.
It actually looks like a Chris Foss sci-fi cover.
Everything on this is beautiful.
Why did everyone complain that this was technically insufficient?
No, no.
I think it's stunning and really fabulously ambitious.
And they've kept it in the bloody office.
He has just given instructions for it to go out.
Okay, sure, but...
Where's the scientific cure?
sit here. literally.
The entire episode is them going, wow, rain.
Wow.
What the fuck is going on here?
Why are you not doing some sort of test to find out what the hell?
You know why, don't you?
Because Sandra and Paul aren't there.
Yeah.
No one's there to take charge.
Oh, Paul's looking sultry.
I pissed in it.
That's where I came from.
Rod did also point out, why are they flying to find stuff?
They have a full map of the moon.
They're flying out to find a plane and it's like...
We know what the moon looks like.
Do we know where do we know where Moonbase Alpha is?
We do.
Don't make me look it up.
We talked about the Sea of Tranquillity before becoming an actual sea.
No, they just say they're in a crater.
It is it is nominated at least in the law of this and okay.
Meanwhile, future of bold.
I also find this shop particularly interesting where it's like, oh, Paul's being very naughty here, giving the woman with concussion some more water, but still leaving some.
It's not water.
It's vodka.
Laced with... potassium benzoin.
It's that magic acid.
Potastic acid.
Yeah, that's the one.
The water is also cursed.
It's G. He overdosed on the cheese later.
That's what I mean when they say this is G-rated.
Interestingly. and the reason Jerry was so tense and everyone, that wasn't it.
Oh, it's delicious.
That was the 1st exterior shooting they had ever done on this production because we forget because we were watching this in broadcast order, but that is not the order it was actually meant to be shown in.
Duh.
So yeah, this is and everyone was super, super, super nervous.
No one more than Jerry.
So that moment when Xenia was caught, you know when you're shooting, there's a little bell that sounds, and that means everyone who shouldn't be here, get out of that airlock or you're in deep trouble.
And then the 2nd bill goes in, you will not breathe.
Right.
So because the shooting on this was so quick, they were behind.
They weren't necessarily behind.
They shot in 11 days, but Charlie Crichton was an expert.
But there's a lot to do and it was going wrong.
Anyway, she was caught in that airlock digetically between the sound stage and the next one with Jerry.
And she said, I've never seen Jerry, look, Jerry usually was very impassive, but, you know, she didn't say like a puppet because that would be cruel.
But she said, he really looked troubled and Jerry never showed emotion.
She said, Jerry, how's it going?
You okay?
And she said for the 1st time and only time, he looked me straight in the eye and he said, I've completely screwed it up.
Oh wow.
And she said, what do you mean?
I think it's going really well. everyone's having a great, you know, a lot of, sorry, Jeff, Brendan, did you want to talk about this scene?
No, no, not.
Oh, sorry, because Babs is getting up and doing an acting with Sandra.
Looking slightly startled, I have to say.
Yeah.
And she said, he said, no, I totally ruined it.
This was meant to be cheap and it's already blown out twice as much and I don't know what to do.
And I thought, that's actually really sweet.
And she said, no, I have really fond memories of Jerry.
It's not his fault that everything went horribly wrong.
It's because we lost Sylvia.
Yeah.
And I will have a lot to say about that.
Yeah, well, yes, we've got 24 hours of bitching about that.
Is this the point where we can talk about final, the testament of alcohol, you know, the 1999.
Oh, that was shot in 1999.
I might save that for season two.
Yeah, yeah.
It's a really emotional little story that you tells.
So we will say that stay tuned.
Also, what the frick are you doing, woman?
You won't get anywhere.
You haven't put your helmet on.
Why have you got it?
Why does no one do it?
Like, he just goes outside with no helmet on?
Like, it's a fucking spaceship full of helmets and stuff.
He's committing suicide.
No, he's not.
He's looking for water.
No, no, no, no, no. committing suicide.
It's very clear.
He's like, he looks at the water and goes, there is no water left.
Oh, you think I'm going to give it to Sandra, and I'm going, it's, it's, I'm going outside.
I maybe sometime.
Right.
Like, you never...
That's why I read it when I was.
You know, you're right, because he has a line later.
You're absolutely right.
And I hadn't put those 2 together.
Yes.
No, no, he's given up.
And he's going, she will not survive if I...
But there's dialogue before about how we could just walk.
He does say that.
Yeah, so yeah, so he's, but yeah, I just assumed he was trying to walk back.
I think it's getting a bit Old Testament, though.
I think he's committing suicide.
Yeah, because later on, he does say, I lay down to die.
It is all getting very Exodus, though, isn't it?
And I don't mean the Leonero.
No, I had thought the word manner before the word banner turned up on the, yeah, you know, like in the dialogue.
And I'm currently directing a production of the importance of being Ernest, where at one point Reverend Chasibel says, I have a sermon on manner in the wilderness, which can be adapted for any occasion.
And here we go.
Squeeze those cupcakes.
That's the one.
They do look like bra foams, don't they?
discovered his methrooms.
Yeah pretty much.
Again, I honestly don't think it was the aerial aliens.
I just think that it's got spawred from one of Victor's.
When the windows opened up.
Well, but here we go.
She can't walk, but she can certainly deliver lines.
I thought this was a fantasy scene when I 1st saw it.
That makes sense.
Yeah.
But it's not.
It's a hallucination on his part.
So it is a fantasy.
Well, no, because they built he does build this shade.
Those fricking white 0 cubes are got to be good for something.
I'll just put you here.
You can't do anything.
Reflecting right back onto how to keep it warm.
Exactly.
You get sunburnt, but hey, it's a great day.
Yeah, yeah.
Is he starting to talk about human race stuff?
No, it's coming.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, literally.
He's only had a small dose.
Oh, God, Barbara looks really haggard, doesn't she?
I don't know what's there.
Well, she was very proud of this.
Also, ew.
They look like all the latex forehead inserts for next generation just 10 years.
Exactly. a matter of honour.
What Mike Westmore's entire...
Or Gold Dakart?
I think it's both of the Jurasses.
The rounder ones.
Oh, what's that scene of redemption when he can't take her eyes off her?
So yeah.
So Patton Stewart soon to retire from acting officially. after the next Marvel film.
I would like to point out in this scene, we have Chekhov's ladder, because that was hanging in the eagle earlier, the ladder holding up the roof.
And I thought to myself, why have they got a fucking ladder?
now it's just going to nowhere.
That's right.
They're not climbing up it.
It's Chehov's prop.
It's holding up the roof.
Is it?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, it's it's tethered to it.
I actually think there's a really, really nice moment where she says, oh, I'll do some tests.
Oh, when are we going to be able to...
This is one of those...
Yeah.
Sorry to interrupt.
This is one of those moments where Barbara really shows just how fine a performer she is.
It's so nicely cadenced.
Paul is you know, throwing it all out of the park.
Nick is really nicely balanced in that kind of tension aggro thing, but just responding.
But Barbara is just doing this.
You know, okay, I'm going to be reasonable and I look, it's not startled, but it's believable.
Yeah.
I mean, I think this is where the episode kind of falls to pieces a bit.
Really?
Yeah.
I think this is where she's at a strongest.
Oh no, she's great.
She's magnificent.
And like I said, I love this.
I like I love this line.
And I think she plays it really well.
How long do you think it'll take?
and she sort of goes, oh, lunchtime.
Yeah.
And then she sort of smiles tentatively and they smile and I think that's very sweet.
And I think also it highlights the age difference between the characters in in a way that is respectful in that just through Barbara's performance.
It's it's the performance of experience, but also the respect for their youthful enthusiasm.
And that's where the lunchtime thing comes in.
I'm not telling you we can't eat it.
And I'm going to make sure we can because I can see how important this is.
And also, you know, she's being swayed by, yeah, we need food.
But not, she's not irresponsible about it.
And it's, it's a night, it's a moment that highlights something that isn't often highlighted in that you have the three main cast members who are much older than the rest of the cast.
And that's rarely kind of brought up.
And when it is brought up, it's sometimes very stupid.
Like, um, Sandra in the cave in full circle.
But here it's actually offices, if you like, of different ages relating to one another.
I think this scene is very effective where we discover that the air will kill them all when they fail to achieve orbit.
And like I thought that was really good.
Like, that's, like, stepping it up a bit from Moon Base Alf is going to be a lake.
It's like the atmosphere is going to freeze when we leave orbit and we'll all die.
But we've all got our school led pencils and we've coloured in all the eagles.
But this bit here, this plot with Stoner.
Yeah, with him going mad. like it seems to come out of nowhere and it seems to be we're not really sure how to make this episode land.
And it kind of it kind of highlights the big flaw in the episode, which is what happens here is whatever needs to happen to justify the action.
Like the aliens come.
Like, I just think it takes focus away from the idea that they give us air.
They give us the thing that we really want, but they're just doing it to prevent us from actually landing, to make us satisfied enough with what we have.
I'm gonna disagree, but I'm gonna disagree later.
Okay.
I think there's something that I think I think it needs to happen.
Otherwise, we're just sitting around at the beach.
Yeah, but that's what I mean.
I think they don't just don't quite have enough that there isn't quite enough to do with the concept and so they have to have the, you know, guest crewman goes mad kind of subplot.
Glad it's Pauling.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But it's not time.
A hot Italian guy.
The big game hunter on board.
Also, finally we get some slappy, slappy bitch.
Sorry, hissy-fitty, slappy bitch party.
Watch the incredible stuntman starter.
No, that was that was Nick, don't you?
No, that was Nick.
It's coming, though.
Now there's 2 random people we've never met before having a fight.
And here's the thing.
I think they did doing the crotch.
Yeah, always.
But that's not that isn't Barbara either.
Look at that.
Oh, we've just thrown a random woman.
Deborah and she had a terrible time.
It's tip tipping in a week.
I'm convinced I'm convinced that that faux Paul is actually wearing the wig for stunt Alan.
Oh, so who would get the Gillette Sabre Razorblade and the Tic-Tacs because that's exactly what you need.
And here we have a case of chibnal syringe that has been heavily forecast and spoiler alert will never be used.
This is very disturbing.
Yes, yeah, I think the choking scene, although that's great.
That shot of him.
Well, it looks like he's about to blow.
But, oh, actually, I've spread this entire scene.
Apologies to everybody. got it all wrong.
He's just going to go and get some of the ropes out of...
New Darlks are landing.
Yeah, they do look a bit, don't they?
Also, she's not sure that she I don't wish to interpret that scene.
No, it's upsetting.
Very disturbing.
Oh, so, Paul, how are you seeing your future career prospect?
He's going to be a he's going to be a guard.
Well, I think there might be a reason you don't seem in the Costco loading dog in season two.
Well, apparently there is a novel written much, much later set between the 2 series which does explain that Paul and Tanya go off to start a human colony.
Like, they basically, they do go into temporary...
Yeah, yeah, but they do go into temporary orbit around a planet in this novel and some of the crew who we don't see in series 2 decide to stay on the planet.
Does Victor decide?
I think I think there's a line in season two.
Yeah, no spoilers, no spoilers.
Oh okay.
Yeah, I think, yeah, I think it preserves that.
And oh, this is my favourite moment.
I was kind of going, why are you filling it with air and then going outside?
But that's what I look at these and I'm like, they're different colours.
That means there is some kind of chemical reaction.
Also, it's a nuclear reactor spaceship.
Surely you can just shoot the hot bit. love that gun.
I just love the gun.
I didn't even notice the big gum there when she was 1st walking over.
I thought she was gonna rub a handgun.
It's in war games as well, and I think she dries one of the other interns air with it in another episode.
That is so crazy. a gorgeous shot.
Oh, there's another random hill.
That was startling.
Yeah.
Finally.
She said, I'm so done with you bitches.
I've had enough of his fucking parties, so...
And he got all sawed off.
There's the 44 incher and I've never complained about one of those inches in my life.
Isn't it gorgeous?
Cough and turn your head to the left.
Round two.
Thank you, James.
Round two, I just announced the issuing of all eagles you see in the 44 inch profiles.
They're only 450 Australian dollars each, so let's dash out.
Let's get 5 in.
Still cheaper than a bloody next generation enterprise.
It's a Lego set.
Yeah, that's true.
Which doesn't have any windows or proper curves.
What did we just see, Brendan?
Well, just Alan's like, Sandra's over there.
She needs help. doesn't say, Paul is going to punch you in the face.
There might be a little bit of, yeah, there might be...
You've had your time.
You've had this coming mate.
Startling Martin Landau there.
Rebrand.
Yeah.
You see, that's that's an Alan Wig.
And there's Xenia saying, I hate you bitches.
Get off me.
I've had to do a lot of lying here this episode.
It's very stressful.
Like, that's the thing.
I thought that I'll never stop complaining.
I thought that Sandra was going to grab Chibnall's syringe here.
Oh, chimney's anchor.
Chimney's grappling hook.
Like, yeah, why...
I remember that... terrifying.
There's a lot of grappling that needs to be done in space.
There is, that's true.
And the ropes. no it's still part of Victor's sex party, I think.
I should have called the podcast that.
The entire thing is that.
I will say, like, a lot of this fight is Martin and Prentice.
There's the bum.
That's Martin.
That wall is the one that, that, um, John died against in that, what was the planet?
The planet with the red sky.
They all have red skies, but the, is it, you know, the happy planet where they go down.
Helena's husband.
Cavemen?
Oh, Plat.
Yeah, the Captain Caveman.
Yes, yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
I don't...
Yeah.
Well, you know, it's like THC.
You can take out some of the stuff.
That's the stuff.
Take out the stuff, give me that.
I'm not eating a fucking mushroom.
Isn't it funny how we can adapt one of our guest of the week scripts for a regular just by going, okay, well, write in this one line of dialogue so you're not dead.
Yeah, yeah.
And you're okay now.
And you've still got your bloody job.
Yeah, well, that's it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
Now, Nathan, this is where I'm going to disagree with your earlier point because the aliens explain why they've been doing what they're doing.
And the ultimate reason that man can't settle is that eventually there'll be eventually there will be violence.
And that's why there's all these probes that come down to see Paul when he goes nuts.
That's where the aliens are.
Now the aliens say we've been watching you since the beginning of time, but also they have now watched them.
And we're here for research.
We did your magic mushrooms and saw what you turned into when you got high and lost the plot.
Yeah, and then decided we weren't going to let you on out.
Yeah, you judgy fucking bastards.
Yeah, you should have just turned out and invaded the planet.
And then judged you because we because we poisoned you with acid.
Yeah.
I mean, I just think the your evil thing is so that's just a little bit shit.
Oh, look, it's fucking trite.
Get me wrong.
I mean, think about think about the one where, you know, we had the drive, you know, the space drive that was just poising everyone that it went past.
And also Sabina...
Yeah, yeah.
Yes, yeah.
Like, I actually think better.
This is completely telling and we're all on now, Violet.
Elizabeth Taylor alert.
But actually, I know I find that absolutely poignant and realistic.
I remember at the time, oh, later on thinking, absolutely right.
We not good enough.
We're not there yet.
And that is the repeating very SF before Lucas and Spielberg when everything was just that edge of dystopian and ain't no future kids.
Well, I mean, that's this season, isn't it?
Do you know what I mean?
Like it's constantly we, we can't join any of the people we want.
We can't settle anywhere because there's something wrong with us.
Yeah, we haven't mastered ourselves.
But at the same time, the people of Ariel don't send warships against them.
No.
They're like, we will give you a few days of what you want.
That's all that's within our power without sacrificing ourselves.
You know?
Oh, they could have done a lot.
Look at their tech.
They could have done anything.
They chose to be very Buddhist about it and give them exactly what they wish for.
But in a sense, it's like we have the idea of like that visual of the last sunset, which we can see, which is beautiful and terribly sad.
And then we just make the space aliens do whatever they have to do in order to make this happen, I think.
I'm sorry, Jerry and Sylvia, I think Sylvia got it, but, you know, she had so much that went wrong that it was hard to keep optimistic about this.
Although she was really very pragmatic about this in later years, not necessarily this episode, but just how good.
Let's not forget who the producer of this series was.
It was Sylvia Anderson.
Yeah, yeah.
The next series, the producer is Freddie Frieder.
Sorry, free but...
Freddie Spock's brain. the one.
And if you want to see a difference in tone and texture and quality, it's done to the producer.
Jerry was the technical guy, the logistics, and the money.
But he was also a creative man who I think we can say now, having watched his stuff for 58 years in my case.
There's great talent, but there was also a great burden, emotional burden with him and not allowing himself to be joyful over what he made.
I think I can safely say that.
Sylvia was an arch pragmatist, very good on the money side and all the rest of it, but she would also say in with complete respect when actors would come up.
She was the one who talked to the actors.
And Xenia, Nick, um, dear Prentice, who, you know, we only lost this year, maybe this is our homage to Prentice Hancock.
Now he's actually given something to do.
And they all said, oh, look, this was a constant joy when they're all asked that printers was only on this season.
How was it?
He said, it was a happy place.
It was the nicest job most of us ever did.
And that's over many, many years of performing.
And it does also include working with Tom Baker.
Twice part.
Yeah, yeah.
And it was because of her.
They went to her and talked to her and she was the one that kept it all going when Jerry was getting really stressed.
It's looking good.
Johnny, stop it.
It's looking great.
Charlie's onto it.
It's working.
Century 21 films, of course, have been making a lot of Jerry and Silver Anderson making Oz because they got sort of networks archive of interviews.
And something I've heard Sylvia say a few times when a script says, you know, written by Jerry and Sylvia Anderson.
She'll say, Jerry, great on story.
You know, he would plot out the story.
I wrote the dialogue.
I wrote the characters and she's like, and that was our strengths.
That was our mutual strengths.
And that's the thing.
You move into series two.
Do the characters suffer?
We'll find out in a few weeks.
Oh, my God.
A few months, actually.
The most traditional. none of us are really qualified to comment on this, but it is the traditional setup of what makes a marriage work.
You have different strengths.
Yeah Well, yeah, those qualities. that very that very yin yang male female thing.
Yeah.
Well, on that note, I think it's time for us to plug some things.
So tell us about.
Yes.
Tell us about 3-handed games.
So over on the three-handed game.
We will shortly be finishing the end of Empire with the Tara King episode Love All. So appropriately enough, talking about the male female romance element, and I'm just going to say Richard has been doing a lot of hard work to arrange something very special for us for Christmas.
We've got to talk to someone who's in some of the episodes and that's all we're saying so far.
And hopefully more lined up later on, but this part is to still, thankfully, still active with the profession and with interviews and she's just a joy to chat to.
If the emails are anything to go by.
Oh my goodness, we've got to have fun.
Also, not a lot of holds held back.
She's very happy to chat.
So that'll be interesting.
Well, we look forward to that.
And 500 year diary will be starting again for series 3 in just a few weeks time, and we are looking at the contribution of Terrence Dix to Doctor Who.
So it will be 6 weeks of unstinting love, ring, and green, scary.
Ironically, not actually that much queen.
No, it's true.
Made by Terrence Stix.
Queen is not the colour of dicks.
Not unless you desperately need to see a doctor.
It's oozing and it's green.
Ew.
Sorry.
All right. our last nice listener.
We don't have a nice...
All right, so all that remains is for me to say, until next time, remember, it's only Megalomania, if God hasn't chosen you to forget a whole new human race.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Good night.
Spaghetti, but getting, but getting everywhere.
And be gone.
Good night.
That was cool.
That was actually very smooth.